README.md, before:

# pontus

[![Last Update](https://img.shields.io/badge/last_update-16_Dec_2024-blue)](https://git.pontusmail.org/aidan/pontus)
[![License: CC0-1.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC0_1.0-lightgrey.svg)](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)

[![a proud member of the orange team of 512KB club](https://512kb.club/assets/images/orange-team.svg)](https://512kb.club)

A website for my online self

## How to self-host

There are two self-hosted options, depending on your situation. For my purposes, I opt to use the script, so I can keep code up-to-date with my repo. However, you may prefer to host the static code, and not use the script.

1. **Use self script**

The `self` script can help you establish a public/ folder, where code can be served to. At this time, it doesn't do anything but move the files over as of now. This script is only supported on Linux hosts.

    To use the self script, you must do the following:

    **a.**  Allow execution of self script

    ```shell
    chmod +x self
    ```

    **b.** Start server

    ```shell
    ./self start
    ```

    You may also use `./self help` (this script does not provide therapy services) to view other available commands.

2. **Use the static files**

    You may also opt to copy the src/ folder to another location, such as /var/www/html, so it can be served static with a web server such as Apache2 or NGINX.

## Serve custom files

If you would like to host your own files, simply place them in `./src/archives`, and they will be served at the same location mine are. Keep in mind, you may not use the same directory structure, and will have to update the menu links.

## To-Do

- [X] Implement minification

Commit message:

feat v1.1.0: migrate to php, add file browser for archive pages, docs updates, docker+actions updates

README.md, after:

# pontus

[![PHP](https://img.shields.io/badge/php-%23777BB4.svg?&logo=php&logoColor=white)](https://www.php.net)
[![License: CC0-1.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC0_1.0-lightgrey.svg)](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)
[![minify.yml](https://git.pontusmail.org/aidan/pontus/actions/workflows/minify.yml/badge.svg)](https://git.pontusmail.org/aidan/pontus/actions?workflow=minify.yaml)

[![a proud member of the orange team of 512KB club](https://512kb.club/assets/images/orange-team.svg)](https://512kb.club)

A website for my online self

## How to self-host

There are two self-hosted options, depending on your situation. For my purposes, I opt to use the script, so I can keep code up-to-date with my repo. However, you may prefer to host the static code, and not use the script.

### Using Docker

You may use Docker with the provided `Dockerfile` and `docker-compose.yml` to get started easily!

To use `pontus` with Docker:

```shell
docker compose up -d --build
```

The image will build, then a server will be started at http://localhost:2280.

The image uses PHP 8.4, Apache, and Bun and will set everything up for you, including minification.

### Using PHP and a web server

You may also opt to copy the src/ folder to another location, such as /var/www/html for use with web servers like Apache.

Keep in mind that PHP is required!

## Serve custom files

If you would like to host your own files, simply place them in `./src/archives/files`, keeping a similar directory structure.

You may have to update `./src/includes/sidebar.php` to include your new directories, and create any pages in `./src/archives` to properly display any custom directories.

You can customize the file browser if you wish in `./src/includes/file-browser.php`
